# Encoder
An encoder is actually just a measuring device mostly mounted on a machine that can measure the physical values like position or speed of that mother machine and turn values into digital data(mostly for non-electrical machines). In the feedback encoder machine, i can say that the machine only supply the power but doesn't control the speed or the position. the speed and the position is capture by the encoder, and the encoder would transmit to controller, and maybe the controller would tell the machine give more power or less. In this sense, encoders are very important, because that means the machine can't track the state themself, they need encoder to track for them, which means the encoders are the tracker inside the machine.
## Relative Encoder(increment encoder)
Because the encoder would record the physical value of the machine, for example a motor's rotation degree. The encoder may give all the rotational position a sensor or what, when the motor rotates, encoder catch the pulse signal, and counts how many signal it receive till now, and because the position distance are the same(for example the encoder may separate the rotation disk 360 degree, after encoder gets next pulse, it means the disk rotates 1 degree further), we can know the degree the motor have already rotated.
## Absolute Encoder
As relative encoder's example, we give every rotational degree of the rotational disk an absolute values, position-1 is 1 degree, position-2 is 2 degree, something like that, if the encoder can know the absolute value, we can build an absolute encoder. Mostly absolute Encoder might choose using "Gray code" to encode every position values, because Gray code can minimized the transition misread(if the value is continuous, like 1->2->3) at most 1 bit. You can check how gray code works from wikipedia. However, gray code is not perfect, the advantage of it constraints in 1 condition----the continuous values. If the disk is rotating so fast that makes the receiving jumps like 1->3->4, the gray code can't guarantee that 1->3 at most 1 bit misread. In this situation, gray code only makes absolute position value.
### Gray code
Gray code is just an encoding code method, that code normal binary encoding code for natural numbers. Because if machine receiving continuous natural number in binary, for example, if a machine is receiving signal data "7" which is coded in binary like "0111", the signal may occupy 4 slot of copper wire connectors or something. Now the next signal is "8" which in binary code is "1000". You can easily observe that 4-bits has change from 7 to 8, and that's the problem rises, the 4 slot of copper wire connectors may delay to receive signals depends on some physical reasons, this makes receiver may misread at most 4-bit data, if some bit delay or faster to be received by connector. Gray code recode the binary code to some form that reduce the misread possibility to 1-bit for any continuous natural number signal receiving.
## fixed-time interval encoder
It can be relative or absolute, the different part is that classical encoder use certain position-interval to measure position and record the timesamp to derive the speed. But fixed-time use the idea in certain time-interval, how many positions has pass by to derive the speed.
